- [Instructor] The final language
we're going to talk about in this course is Go
and how it applies to AWS Lambdas.
Now Go is a fantastic language
and it's one that I use almost every day.
While I'm still kind of a Java guy,
Go does have a special place in my heart.
However, when it comes to running Lambdas,
Python is still number one for me.
But that being said,
Go really is a fantastic language for Lambdas
as well as many other things
that you might want to use it for.
So if you're interested in go, this is a great opportunity
for you to really play around with it
and learn what you need to do
to become efficient at writing Lambdas with Go.
So let's start by creating a new project.
Now I'm going to do this with my IDE
which is GoLand from jet brains.
Obviously you do not need to use this IDE,
there are many quality Go IDEs,
many of which are free that you can use,
but in this case, this is what I'm going to use.
So I'm going to create a new project
and I'm going to base it off Gomod.
So Gomod isn't dependency management system for Go
you can do the same thing by doing a Gomod in it
that this is going to do,
it just saves me that extra step
but I'm going to allow Gomod to handle all of my dependencies
specifically around Lambda.
So let's jump in here
and let's find the appropriate place to put this.
So we're going to put this in serverlessaws,
we'll create a new folder
and this is just how I manage it,
this is just where I have my exercise files.
Put a Go functions out there
and we're going to call this one Go demo.
So you see when it creates it, we get a go.mod folder
and we're going to use that go.mod
to manage our dependencies, as I said.
But we've got to load them in first.
So I'm going to pop up in a terminal window here
and I'm going to type a, go get command.
And I want to go get github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/lambda.
So I specifically want the Lambda package.
So we'll allow, go to go grab that,
got it on my machine, so I'm good to go.
Now, the first thing we need to do
is we need to create a Go file
and we're just going to call this one, main.
So I've got a main file.
I need to rename the package to main.
Now there's a few things that we're going to add here
into our package.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to create a struct
and it is going to be for my requests.
So we'll create a Request struct
in this request will have two elements, a count integer
and we'll go ahead and specify the json for it.
And the other element is going to be a Message.
Now, the next one we are going to do is a Response.
Once again, a struct and we will simply do a Status string
and we will give it a json moniker.
Now we're going to create our handler function itself.
So a new function we'll simply call us HandleRequest,
we're going to pass it in context
and we will also pass in our request element
and we will respond was our Response struct and error.
Now the structured format
to what this request has to look like,
this handler has very specific rules
and they're very well documented on the AWS website.
So if you ever have to deal with specific request response
whether you need to use context,
I highly encourage you to go read that documentation.
This is how I work in Go everyday.
Context is invaluable for me
especially when it comes to log in.
So by default, I'm going to bring context in
but the reality is for what we're doing,
we could have simply just passed and request
and responded with the response element.
Nothing we're doing is really that painful.
Now that that's done, let's do a log,
we're going to simply do a Printf
and we will do this, we'll say value of request that Count.
So that's going to be a simple log message
that will get executed when this Lambda runs.
We've seen it before, nothing crazy.
Let's do our for loop, for i:=0;i<request.Count;i++
brace it out and we will do it log.Print.
We're simply going to do our Message
that comes from our payrod.
And for you simplicity sake,
we will return a response that has a Status of 200 OK,
all done.
And we need to finish that with a nil for the error.
Now it's time for our main function.
So Go always operates on a main function
just like many other languages.
But for this, we are going to do a Lambda that start
and we're going to asset the Handler function
that we just created.
And that's all there is.
That is the simplicity of Go.
This is everything we need to do, very similar to Python
in order to execute our program.
So in the next video, we'll compile this, zip it up,
set it up to AWS and execute.